# Ordinary_Differential_Eq._Solver_Android

One of the main reasons that calculus is so important is because it is used to study mathematical models consisting of differential equations. A differential equation is an equation that contains information about the derivative(s) of a function. “Solving” the differential equation consists of finding a function that satisfies the given requirement. For example, if the differential equation is: y'(t) = 2t + 1, then we want to find a function y(t) that has this as its derivative. A more common situation is where the derivative of y depends on y itself, instead of just on t. For example, the differential equation y`(t) = 0.05y models an investment (or population) that grows at a rate of 5% per year. The rate of change of y depends on the current value of y (not on what the value of t happens to be). In addition to the differential equation, a mathematical model must include an “initial condition” – the value of the variable at the starting time, usually y(0). Many real-world mathematical models consist of systems of differential equations, representing several variables that interact. Usually, these are too complicated to solve exactly by hand. Instead, we use computers to approximate the solutions. The basic idea of the computer’s solution is to plug the current values into the right hand sides of the differential equations, use the rates of change to see how the variables should change, then take a small step forward in time and update the variables, then repeat. 

Differential equations can describe nearly all systems undergoing change. They are ubiquitous is science and engineering as well as economics, social science, biology, business, health care, etc. Many mathematicians have studied the nature of these equations for hundreds of years and there are many well-developed solution techniques. Often, systems described by differential equations are so complex, or the systems that they describe are so large, that a purely analytical solution to the equations is not tractable. It is in these complex systems where computer simulations and numerical methods are useful. Computer simulation of differential equations is used in every area of the sciences, such as modeling climate change, rocket trajectories, economic cycles, neural activity, . . . In this project, we will make an Android Application which will solve Solve Ordinary Differential Equations using Numerical Methods.
